Elijah King
PUI Assignment 8
Dec 11th 2020

https://eli-king.github.io/Homework__8/
https://github.com/eli-king/Homework__8

Part 1: 
	For my final project, I created a digital magazine, or portfolio, to highlight black artists in the genres they’ve been traditionally erased from. This issue focused on the music and videos of electronic and punk musicians, along with writings about their impact on the greater music community. Similarly to Fractal Fantasy and Dummy Mag, users will discover new multimedia artists for casual listening, while educating themselves on the history of a genre or album. The site uses transparency, animation, and sound to create a unique experience for every user. My intent was to capture the experimental and exciting nature of each genre while letting the portfolio site act as a backdrop for a listed project. Casual music listeners and fans of electronic music are the target audience of this site.

Part 2: 
Remove blurred overlay, revealing home page
Click on “Click to Enter”
Unmute background video’s sound
Click on “Click to Enter”
Change background video and sound
Hover over the artist’s names
Go to an artist’s page
Click on artist’s name (Ghettoville)
Play music
Click play on a YouTube video to follow along with the article
Reveal navigation menu
Click on the plus icon
Close navigation menu
Click on the minus icon
Return to muted home screen
Click on “Home” in revealed navigation menu

Part 3:
Custom web fonts with Font Squirrel
This tool generated the necessary files to use custom fonts in CSS. I chose to use it because I wasn’t satisfied with the typical font selection found on Google Fonts.
I used these fonts on the site’s home page to give a personality to the artists before a user experienced their music.
Including these fun and experimental title fonts added to the look and editorial feel of the site.
Shining Text Animation Effect
I chose to use this animation because it added motion to an otherwise static button.
I attached this animation to the “click to enter” prompt. I changed the gradient from black and white to a zero opacity white and white, then to a yellow and white gradient when interacted with.
I’ve seen similar animations at the beginning of classic arcade games when users are prompted to enter coins, so I thought that would be a fun way to enter a website.
Google Cloud
I chose to host the background videos on Google Cloud in an effort to speed up the site’s loading time and reduce the overall processing load.
The background video changes when a user hovers over the artist’s name. This was achieved by triggering a javascript function to make an API call to a Google Storage Bucket containing each video, then changing the background video’s source.
The background videos give users a preview of the artist’s work.
Bob on Hover
I chose to use this animation because it’s a subtle yet fun way to show the user that they can click on the artist’s names. 
This animation is triggered when a user hovers over an artist’s name.
This animation is very subtle and doesn’t add much to the overall site, but it looks cool when moving against a textured background (like when hovering over Moiré).
Nav +/- and Fade Opacity
I chose to use this animation to reveal and hide the navigation links. I modified it to fit the look and feel of my site, and to translate across the screen while transforming from a plus symbol to a minus symbol. 
When a user clicks on the plus symbol, a CSS animation is triggered while a javascript function simultaneously toggles the div that contains it from open to closed.
There is a lot going on on each page of the site. I hid the navigation bar because it’s not necessary on the homepage or project pages until a user needs to return a muted home screen.
Vanilla JS Image Particles
I chose to use this as a background for the Ghettoville page because it sets the tone of the article, and compliments its music.
This javascript function draws 20,000 particles moving downward at a constant speed while calculating the brightness of each pixel on a local image. The particle speed is adjusted to slow at brighter, whiter pixels, creating a rain-like ghosting effect.
The slow reveal forces users to engage with the image, and hopefully the text that is revealed soon after.

Part 4:
	My original idea was less experience oriented than the final site. When I created the prototype I was working within the confines of Adobe XD, but once I started to code, I experimented with transparency, blending modes, and motion. This resulted in an audio visual experience tailored to each artist instead of a general music discovery platform.

Part 5:
	My biggest challenge was getting the background videos to work with efficiency, speed, and sound. Chrome doesn’t allow videos to autoplay with sound until a user clicks somewhere on the screen. To get around this challenge I added an overlay that prompts users to click.